# Switch Statements

Sometimes, we have a long chain of `if` and `else if` statements, such as the one in the prior lesson which was about the day of the week. To do this, we can combine then into something called a **`switch`** statement. The `switch` statement has a lot of syntax, so pay attention and make sure you get it all.

It takes in a single variable, and does various different actions depending on different values of that variable. It does this by having the programmer define various possible values for that variable, and then defining what should be done in those cases. For instance, take the example below.

```java
String dayOfTheWeek = “Monday”;
switch(dayOfTheWeek) {
  case “Sunday”:
    System.out.println(“1st Day of the Week”);
    break;
  case “Monday”:
    System.out.println(“2nd Day of the Week”);
    break;
  case “Tuesday”:
    System.out.println(“3rd Day of the Week”);
    break;
  case “Wednesday”:
    System.out.println(“4th Day of the Week”);
    break;
  case “Thursday”:
    System.out.println(“5th Day of the Week”);
    break;
  case “Friday”:
    System.out.println(“6th Day of the Week”);
    break;
  case “Saturday”:
    System.out.println(“7th Day of the Week”);
    break;
  default:
    System.out.println(“Error, unknown day of the week”);
    break;
}
```

This is a lot to break down, so we will do go over the syntax in depth.

We first use `switch()` to define which variable we want to check. After that, we define the different possibilities in the brackets.

We do so by putting `case VALUE:`. After this colon, we put the code we want to execute if the variable matches that VALUE. Note that this is not contained within brackets. Instead, we terminate that case by putting the line `break;`.

This ends the case and allows us to move on. Do not forget to put the `break;` statement. Doing so will break your switch statement and cause unexpected results.

The final part is the `default:` section at the end. The code in this case executes in case the value of the variable does not match one of the cases. Most of the time, this code shouldn’t be run, since you should account for all cases.

Switch statements are a lot to digest, especially compared to `if`, `else`, and `else if` statements. You can always use `if`/`else if` statements instead of `switch` statements, but sometimes, `switch` statements look nicer. We occasionally use `switch` statements in robot code, so it’s important to know how to read them.
