# Command Groups

(Click [here](https://docs.wpilib.org/en/latest/docs/software/commandbased/command-groups.html) for further information.)

So far, we've gone through writing individual commands and their respective subsystems. However, what if we want to make more complex robot actions? One might want to run multiple commands simultaneously, for instance. Or, one might need to write out a robot routine with multiple commands. This is where a `command group` comes in. 

As the name indicates, command groups are combinations or collections of multiple commands. Command groups compose multiple commands into one whole, allowing a program to be kept simple and clean. Overall, they allow for reduction in code complexity.

One thing to note is that *command groups themselves are commands*. This allows for command groups to contain other command groups as components, and so on.

<hr>

The command-based library supports **four** basic types of command groups: `Sequential`, `Parallel`, `ParallelRace`, and `ParallelDeadline`. Types `ParallelRace` and `ParallelDeadline` are similar to `Parallel`, along with their own unique qualities. 

## Sequential

A `SequentialCommandGroup` allows for commands to be run in a defined sequence. The program moves forward in the sequence once a command finishes until the sequence is complete. Therefore, it is imperative that each command in the list is able to actually end -- otherwise, the sequence will break prematurely.

## Parallel

The `ParallelCommandGroup` allows for commands within it to run simultaneously. This group ends once *all* commands inside have finished.

## ParallelRace & ParallelDeadline

First, the `ParallelRaceGroup` runs its commands concurrently, just like the `ParallelCommandGroup`. However, a group of type `ParallelRace` ends when any command inside finishes; all other commands still running are interrupted at that time. 

A `ParallelDeadlineGroup` is almost exactly like the `ParallelRaceGroup`, except it ends when a *specific* command is complete (the "deadline" or stopping point). Like before, all other commands are interrupted when the group reaches its deadline (if they haven't ended already).

## Creating Command Groups

To create a command group, simply subclass one of the command group classes described above. Let's go through a sequential group with our intake and an imaginary drivetrain:

```java
public class ShipFrontCommand extends SequentialCommandGroup {

    public ShipFrontCommand(Drivetrain drive, Intake intake) {
        addCommands(
            new DriveDistanceCommand(AutoDistance, drive),
            new EjectCargoCommand(intake),
            new TurnLeftCommand(90, drive) // degrees
        );
    }

}
```

This is a `SequentialCommandGroup` that moves the robot forward a certain distance towards the nose of the cargo ship, ejects the pre-loaded cargo, and then turns left. Of course, this assumes that `DriveDistanceCommand`, `TurnLeftCommand`, and their parameters are defined, and that the necessary import statements are present. The class itself is the command group, and inside the constructor, we use `addCommands()` to list out the desired actions.

The command group would be bound in the same way an individual command would:

```java
public class RobotContainer {

    ...

    private void configureButtonBindings() {
        operatorController.bButton.whileHeld(new IntakeCargoCommand(m_intake));
        operatorController.aButton.whileHeld(new EjectCargoCommand(m_intake));  

        operatorController.xBurron.whenPressed(new ShipFrontCommand(m_drive, m_intake));
    }

    public void updateSubsystems() {
        intake.update();
    }

    ...

}
```

## Restriction

It is important to note that the program will throw an error if a command is scheduled independently and called from within a command group at the same time. For instance, in the example above, it would be problematic if the `ShipFrontCommand` command group was called at the same time as `TurnLeftCommand`, since the command would be being run from multiple places at once. 