# More About Classes

## Constructors

Let's look at our class from last time:

```java
public class Car
{
    String model;
    int age;
    String color;
    double speed;
}
```

```java
public static void main(String[] args)
{
    Car carObject = new Car();
    carObject.model = "Magic School Bus";
    carObject.age = 100;
    carObject.color = "Yellow";
    carObject.speed = 31415.9265;
}
```

You may notice that it's extremely tedious to set all of the variables. We would like to make it so that while we're creating the object with `new Car()`, we can just input our values there. We can do this with something known as constructors.

In our `Car.java`, let's define a constructor:

```java
public class Car
{
    String model;
    int age;
    String color;
    double speed;

    Car(String model, int age, String color, double speed)
    {
        this.model = model
        this.age = age;
        this.color = color;
        this.speed = speed;
    }
}
```

```java
public static void main(String[] args)
{
    Car carObject = new Car("Magic School Bus", 100, "Yellow", 31415.9265);
}
```

In our constructor, we first define a set of input parameters. These are passed in when we create the object using `new Car(`. Then, back to our `Car` class, we have to define what we do with those. In this case, we assign our property, `this.model` to `model`. The reason why we have `this.model` and `model` is because there is a naming conflict between the constructor arguments and the properties. In this case, to differentiate the two, `this.model` refers to the property and `model` refers to the input parameter. Normally, we would want to make sure the names do not conlict, which would eliminate the need for the `this.`. However, in this case we did not, so we used `this.`.

## Access Modifiers

TODO LATER

## Package

When we're making a project with 100s of classes, we're going to have 100s of files. As a result, we always want to be able to organize these files within folders. Within Java, these folders are called `packages`. Whenever we put a file in a folder that is not the root folder, we have to put at the top `package foldername`. For instance, if `Car.java` were in the folder `automobiles`, we would put:

```java
package automobiles;

public class Car
{

}
```

If it were in the folder `automobiles/cars`, we would put:

```java
package automobiles.cars;

public class Car
{

}
```

## Import

If we have two classes, and they aren't in the same folder, then we have to do something called an `import` statement. For instance, say we have `automobiles/Cars.java` and `Main.java`. We would have to `import` the `Cars.java` file.

```java
package automobiles;

public class Car
{

}
```

```java
import automobiles.Car;

public class Main
{
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
        System.out.println("Imported Cars");
    }
}
```

## Constants

Before, we talked about how static variables are shared and do not require variables. As a result, when we have constants in programming, such as robot max speed, we normally make a file called `Constants.java`.

```java
public class Constants
{
    public static final double ROBOT_MAX_SPEED = 12.0;
}
```

In here, we put all of our constants in one place so that they can be easily found and adjusted if necessary. We can access it by calling `Constants.ROBOT_MAX_SPEED`.