# Motors

## Basics

Our robot is essentially made up of entirely motors. All moving components are controlled by motors or pneumatics, and our job as programmers is to figure out how to convert the commands of the drive team into the robot actually doing its job. For instance, programming will make sure that certain motors move when drive team pushes buttons or joysticks on the controller.

## Motors vs Speed Controllers

When talking about programming, we mostly use the word motor and speed controller interchangeably. However, the motor is the actual physical part that is spinning. In between the motor and the RoboRIO, or the computer/brain of the robot, is something called a speed controller. Essentially, we send our signals to that speed controller and it uses those inputs to control the motor appropriate. The speed controller gives us some cool functionality and control over the motor, and for programmers, we don't really need to know the difference that much, just that there is one.

## Motor Values

For each motor, we can command an output from -1 to 1. Essentially, a value of -1 for a motor is full speed backwards, while a value of +1 is full speed forwards. Meanwhile, a value of 0 means that the motor is not moving at all. For instance, if we had a motor for an elevator and we wanted it to go up, we could set the speed value of that motor to 0.8 to output positive 80% of our battery voltage.

On the more advanced motor controllers, we can actually command a desired velocity at the end of a gearbox shaft, constantly attempt to use it to get a mechanism to a desired rotation count and stay there, or other things.

## Electronics

Each speed controller is connected to the RoboRIO, or the brain of the robot. However, on a single robot, we have a various number of different motors, all doing different things that have to have different signals being output simultaneously. As a result, we have to be able to differentiate motors and make sure that we are controlling the correct ones. Therefore, when electronics configure the motor controllers, each motor controller is assigned a specific ID, be it over CAN or PWM. In programming, to differentiate these motors, we use these IDs in our code when creating motor controller objects.
