# Motor Code

So let's go back to our basic robot code structure that we wrote in the beginning:

```java
package frc.robot;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj.*;

public class Robot extends IterativeRobot {
    public void robotInit() {
        // Runs once when the robot is turned on
    }

    public void teleopPeriodic() {
        // Runs repeatedly when the robot is in teleop
    }
}
```

For the basics, we're going to focus solely on `robotInit()` and `teleopPeriodic()`. This is because we mostly use `robotInit()` for initializing objects and `teleopPeriodic()` for actually updating these motors.

## Making a Motor Object

There are many different types of motor controllers in FRC. For instance, there are Sparks, Victors, Talons, and more. For wheels, we commonly use something known as the Talon SRX. For each different type of motor, we have to use a bit of different code, so it is crucial that programming asks electronics what motors they are planning to use. However, changing the motors is not that bad in code.

To make a motor object so we can control a Talon SRX on the robot, we first have to know its ID. As said before, they are many motors on a robot, and to distinguish them, they all have different IDs. To get these IDs, we have to ask electronics. Let's say electronics says there's going to be one Talon SRX on the robot with the ID of 2. To put this in code, we would write:

```java
package frc.robot;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj.*;
import com.ctre.phoenix.motorcontrol.can.*; // NEW

public class Robot extends IterativeRobot {

    WPI_TalonSRX motor; // NEW

    public void robotInit() {
        // Runs once when the robot is turned on

        motor = new WPI_TalonSRX(2); // NEW
    }

    public void teleopPeriodic() {
        // Runs repeatedly when the robot is in teleop
    }
}
```

Ok, let's break this down:

- First, we have `import com.ctre.phoenix.motorcontrol.can.*;`. Just like how we have to import wpilib stuff with the line prior, we have to import the libraries for our the TalonSRX motor controller.
- Then, we have to declare our motor object inside of our class with `WPI_TalonSRX motor;`. What this does is create a variable belonging to our Robot for the motor. We aren't actually setting it to a value at the moment, we will do that next.
- Finally, we have to set the value of the motor and create the motor object with `motor = new WPI_TalonSRX(2);`. This sets that motor variable we delcared earlier to be equal to a new motor object. We customize this motor object and tell it exactly which one it corresponds to in the physical word by inputting the ID of the motor into the constructor. Note that this is done inside of `robotInit()`, as we want to make this motor once when the robot first boots up.

Note that we used `WPI_TalonSRX` as the type of the variable and the object. In this case, we used it because the motor used on the robot was a TalonSRX. However, if the physical motor were say, a Spark, we would use `Spark` instead, and use the import statement for that as well. Most of the time, if you need to figure out which one you need, you can go online and find out.

## Controlling the Motor

Now that we have created the motor object, we have to control it. Doing so is very simple:

```java
package frc.robot;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj.*;
import com.ctre.phoenix.motorcontrol.can.*; // NEW

public class Robot extends IterativeRobot {

    WPI_TalonSRX motor; // NEW

    public void robotInit() {
        // Runs once when the robot is turned on

        motor = new WPI_TalonSRX(2); // NEW
    }

    public void teleopPeriodic() {
        // Runs repeatedly when the robot is in teleop

        motor.set(1.0);
    }
}
```

To control a motor, we simply use `motor.set(VALUE)`. VALUE is a decimal between -1.0 and 1.0. Essentially, 1.0 means full speed forward, 0.0 means no speed/movement, and -1.0 means full speed backward.