# Command Based Basics

The main structure we use for organizing our robot code is known as `command based`. Essentially, in this format, all mechanisms on our robot are grouped into `subsystems,` and each of these `subsystems` can have `commands` run on them. In almost all cases, every action our robot can perform will be a `command`.

## Subsystems

All subsystems on a robot are composed of a few things: actuators (motors/pistons) and sensors. Right now, we won't worry too much about sensors.

Each of these subsystems will have a few actions it can do with these actutators. For instance, a drivetrain can use manual control. An intake could either take in or eject a game piece. An elevator can use manual control or precise control to get to a specific position.

## Commands

Each of those aforementioned actions are a `command`. At any given time, a `subsystem` can have a single `command` running on it. There are many ways to set the current `command` of a subsystem. The most simple way to do so is to define the default `command` of a subsystem, which will run when no other specified action is sent. The next way to set `commands` to a `subsystem` is to schedule a `command` to be sent when a certain button is pressed on a controller.

For instance, for an intake, we might set it up so that whenever nothing is being pressed, its default `command` is to make it stop spinning. When the A button is pressed,we will schedule it so that it will run an ejecting command, and when the B button is pressed, we will schedule it so that it runs an intaking command.

## Scheduler

The way WPILib handles all of `command based` is through something known as the `Scheduler`. Essentially, to use `command based`, we have to constantly call the `Scheduler` to make sure it actually reads our command and sets our robot in action. Inside all of our `periodic` functions, we have to put the line `Scheduler.getInstance().run();`
