# Commands

Now that we have the structure of the `subsystem` down, we have to design `commands` to actually control it. At any given point, there can be one `command` running on the `subsystem`.

## Structure of a Command

A `command` has two primary elements similar to `autonomous` and `teleop`: an `init()` block and a `periodic()` block. In `commands`, these are known as `initialize()` and `execute()`.

Here are all of the components that we normally modify:
- `initialize()` - what is run once when this command is started (very similar to `init()`)
- `execute()` - what is run every loop while this command is active (very similar to `periodic()`)
- `isFinished()` - returns a boolean for when the command is finished executing and can be ended. Essentially where you define when this command is terminated
- `end()` - what happens when the command finishes (used to clean up variables/code)
- `interrupted()` - what happens when the command is interrupted by another command (normally just calls `end()`)

## Command Examples

For a `subsystem` like the roller intake we have been working with, we have 3 main `commands.
- NeutralCargo - keeps the intake in the neutral state
- IntakeCargo - sets the intake to be intaking
- EjectCargo - sets the intake to be ejecting

These are the 3 main actions we want to perform with our intake. Next, we have to consider when we want these commands to be run.

- NeutralCargo - whenever the operator isn't pressing anything, this should be run
- IntakeCargo - while the operator is holding a button like the B button, this should be run
- EjectCargo - while the operator is holding a button like the A button, this should be run

Now that we have this planning out of the way, we can get to actually programming our commands.

## Basic Code

```java
public class NeutralCargoCommand extends Command {

    private Intake intake;

    public NeutralCargoCommand() {
        intake = Robot.intake;

        requires(intake);
    }

    @Override
    public void initialize() {

    }

    @Override
    public void execute() {
        intake.neutral();
    }

    @Override
    public boolean isFinished() {
        return false;
    }

    @Override
    public void end() {
        
    }

    @Override
    public void interrupted() {
        end();
    }
}
```

Scroll up and look at the list above in order to remind yourself what each of these functions do. In this case, what we want our command to do is that while it is active on our `Intake` subsystem, it will constantly run the `intake.neutral()` function, which sets the `Intake` to the neutral state.

One thing to note is what occurs in the constructor of the `command`. Essentially, it stores a reference to the `subsystem` it uses, which in this case is `Intake`. This is for convenience purposes so that the command can refer back to this subsystem in the future. Then, it uses `requires(intake)`. What this does is that it defines which `subsystem` this command is for.

## Other Commands

For brevity, I'm not going to include the code for `IntakeCargoCommand` and `EjectCargoCommand`, since they're practically copies of `NeutralCargoCommand`, with just using `intake.intake()` or `intake.eject()` instead of `intake.neutral()`.

Now that we have these commands defined, the last step is to define when these commands will be called, which we will do next.
