# Binding Commands and OI

The way that we link the `commands` we have on the robot and our physical controllers is through something known as `OI`, or `operator interface`. As described by WPILib, it is "the glue that binds the controls on the physical [controller] to the commands and command groups that allow control of the robot."

## Basic Code

```java
public class OI {

    private static OI instance = null;

    private SnailController driveController;
    private SnailController operatorController;

    private OI() {
        driveController = new SnailController(0);
        operatorController = new SnailController(0);
    }

    public static OI getInstance() {
        if (instance == null) {
            instance = new OI();
        }
        return instance;
    }
}
```

We make `OI` in a new file called `OI.java`, which should reside in the same directory as `Robot.java`.

Note something peculiar: we use `private` in the constructor for `OI` and we have a function called `getInstance()`. This is something known as a **`singleton`**. It's not too common in classes we use, but it's a good concept to know how it works. See [here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/singleton-class-java/) for more details. Essentially, whenever we want to access `OI`, rather than creating a new `OI` object, we use `OI.getInstance()`.

The next thing that is interesting is the usage of these objects called `SnailController`. `SnailController` is a class developed by 1257 as a way to use Xbox controllers with command based programming easily. Essentially, we always drop the `SnailController.java` file into our project in a folder called `util`, and we don't really have to touch it anymore. It's a utility file that we has already been programmed and we don't have to worry about it. A copy of `SnailController.java` is included in the `/programs/` folder.

## Binding Controls to Commands

With `SnailController`, binding commands to the buttons is very easy. We want to run the `IntakeCargoCommand` when the B button is pressed on our operator controller. And then we want the `EjectCargoCommand` to be run when the A button is pressed.

```java
public class OI {

    private static OI instance = null;

    private SnailController driveController;
    private SnailController operatorController;

    private OI() {
        driveController = new SnailController(0);
        operatorController = new SnailController(1);

        operatorController.bButton.whileHeld(new IntakeCargoCommand());
        operatorController.aButton.whileHeld(new EjectCargoCommand());
    }

    public static OI getInstance() {
        if (instance == null) {
            instance = new OI();
        }
        return instance;
    }
}
```

Essentially, for each controller, we can access a variable for each of the buttons. Then, we can call a function on each of these variables to configure a command to be run when a certain action is taken out on it. Here are a few actions you can use:

- `whenPressed()` - runs the command once when the button is first pressed
- `whileHeld()` runs the command continuously while the button is pressed
- `whenReleased()` - runs the command once when the button is released
- `toggleWhenPressed()` - toggles the running of a command when the button is pressed

## Default Command

We finally have one command left that we need to bind: the `NeutralCargoCommand`. Essentially, this command should be constantly running whenever no other command is being commanded to that subsystem. The way we set this up is by going to the `Intake.java` file. 

```java
public class Intake extends Subsystem {
    ...

    public Intake() {
        intakeMotor = new WPI_VictorSPX(0);
    }

    @Override
    public void initDefaultCommand() {

    }
    ...
}
```

For brevity, I've cut out the beginning and end of the class. The main point of interest is `initDefaultCommand()`, which we previously left blank, signifying there is no default command. However, if we did want to set one up, we could do the following. 

```java
public class Intake extends Subsystem {
    ...

    public Intake() {
        intakeMotor = new WPI_VictorSPX(0);
    }

    @Override
    public void initDefaultCommand() {
        setDefaultCommand(new NeutralCargoCommand());
    }
    ...
}
```

Now that we've done this, our intake is complete! The full code for this can be found within the `/programs` folder.
