# Arrays

We have discussed many types of variables, but they have all been singular, with no sense of quantity. For instance, when we declare a variable with `int i = 0`, we are just making a single variable. Many times, we want to store a list of values of the same type. For instance, we may want a list of grades, a list of data values, or a list of enemies. In this case, we can introduce a new, flexible data type known as the **`array`**.

Arrays are a structure that stores a series of values of the same type. For instance, we can make an array of ints that stores a bunch of ints. We could also make an array of Strings that stores a bunch of words that may make up a book. We can do a lot with arrays, and they can be made of any variable types.

One thing to note is that arrays have fixed sizes. When we create an array, we must give it a specified length. If this length is exceeded, we must either make a new array, or replace some elements.

Another important thing is that arrays are 0-indexed. What does this mean? If you want to access the first element of an array, you write 0, not 1. When you access an array for the 4th element, you write `array[3]`, not `array[4]`.

With those important notes out of the way, we can get to creating arrays:

```java
int[] array = new int[4];
```

First of all, we have the standard structure for creating a variable. We first put its datatype, then the name of the variable, and then we have the value of that variable. First of all, to make an array of ints, we put `int[]`. To make an array of Strings, we put `String[]`. We simply take the type name, and add `[]` after it. Next, we have the typical variable naming. Finally, we have the initialization part. In this section, we put `new int[]`. Obviously, `int` would be replaced with the data type that we plan to store. The types on the left and right should match. However, we must then put a number in between the `[]`. Note that before, we said that arrays have fixed lengths. This is where we input that length.

However, this is not the only way of creating an array. Below, we have another format:

```java
int[] array = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
```

In this case, the beginning and middle is the exact same. However this time, we omit the arary length. Instead, after the `[]`, we insert `{1, 2, 3, 4}`. Here, we put values for our array, in order. This implicitly defines the length of the array as the length of the initial values we provide. In this case, the array length is set to 4, with the initial values of 1, 2, 3, and 4. Remember what we said before, arrays are 0-indexed. Therefore, 1 corresponds to the 0th index, 2 corresponds to the 1th index, and so on.

Finally, we can get to array manipulations. To access the element in an array, we can simply do `arrayName[index]`.

```java
int[] array = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
System.out.println(array[1]); // Prints out 2
```

To change an element in array, we can do typical reassignment, like it was a normal `int` variable.

```java
int[] array = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
System.out.println(array[2]); // Prints out 3
array[2] = 4;
System.out.println(array[2]); // Prints out 4
```
