# For Loops w/ Arrays

When we have an array of very large size, it can become very tedious to assign each number to an array, 1 by 1. Especially when the user is inputting the size of an array; in that case, it isn't even possible to code in by hand all of the values of an array. In this case, we use a loop to handle this for us and manipulate the values of an array.

To begin, let’s start with printing out all of the values of an array.

```java
int[] array = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
System.out.println(array[0]);
System.out.println(array[1]);
System.out.println(array[2]);
System.out.println(array[3]);
```

We could try this, but imagine if the array was 1,000 elements long. This would become unbearably slow to type. And then imagine 1,000,000!

To simplify this, we utilize a **`for`** loop. Note that `arrayName.length` returns the length of the array. In the above case, it would return `4`.

```java
int[] array = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
for(int i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {
  System.out.println(array[i]);
}
```

Let’s walk through this for loop. First, we note that `array.length` is simply `4` in this case. We can substitute this in for our example. 

```java
int[] array = new int[] {1, 2, 3, 4};
for(int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
  System.out.println(array[i]);
}
```

Note that this for loop will take the values 0, 1, 2, and 3. Because we put the `<` sign instead of `<=`, the for loop will terminate once `i` reaches `4`. Then, consider the array indices. 0 is the first element, 1 is the second, and so on. This will print out all of the elements in our array. This was why we frequently start for loops at `0` and use `<` instead of `1` and `<=`. This allows us for a convenient way to access array values.

If you want a technical explanation for why arrays start at 0 and not 1, ask a senior programmer, who will either explain or refer you to someone who knows. The explanation delves into the more technical details of programming, so it might interest you :)

Now, what if we wanted to set all of the values in our array to the numbers 1-100? We certainly don’t want to write a list in code of all 100 numbers. First, we could create our array.

```java
int[] numbers = new int[100];
```

Then, we could use a for loop to go through all of the indices:

```java
int[] numbers = new int[100];

for(int i = 0; i < numbers.length; i++) {
  numbers[i] = i;
}
```

Will this work? If we print the contents, we will find it doesn’t. This is because `i` is still 0-based, but we want to print the numbers starting at 1. We have two options: we could either assign the value of each array element to `i + 1`, or we could make `i` 1-based, and then adjust the array accessing.

Option 1:

```java
int[] numbers = new int[100];

for(int i = 0; i < numbers.length; i++) {
numbers[i] = i + 1;
}
```

Option 2:

```java
int[] numbers = new int[100];

for(int i = 1; i <= numbers.length; i++) {
numbers[i - 1] = i;
}
```

Now, what if we made a mistake, and for an array of size 4, we accessed index 4 or -1? (Remember, these are out of bounds, since the array only supports indices 0-3). In this case, the program would crash and give us an ArrayOutOfBoundsException. Exceptions are essentially something that happens when a program goes wrong, and the computer is trying to give you more information as to what happened. In this case, the explanation is pretty obvious in the name, but some other exceptions can be a bit misleading.

We can do a lot with arrays, and I have included a few programs that demonstrate the power of arrays and looping.