# Command Based

To organize our robot code, we use what is known as a "command-based" design pattern. Essentially, in this framework, all mechanisms on our robot are grouped into what are known as `subsystems`, and each of these `subsystems` are able to run certain `commands`. In almost all cases, every action our robot can perform will be a `command`.

## Subsystems

All subsystems on a robot are composed of a few things: actuators (motors/pistons) and sensors. However, we won't worry too much about sensors right now.

Each of these subsystems will have a few actions it can do with these actuators. For instance, a drivetrain can be moved with manual driver control. An intake could either take in or eject a game piece. An elevator can use either manual control, or precise control to get to a specific position.

## Commands

Each of those aforementioned actions are a `command`. At any given time, a `subsystem` can have a single `command` running on it. There are many ways to set the current `command` of a subsystem. The most simple way to do so is to define the default `command` of a subsystem, which will run when no other specified action is sent. The next way to set `commands` to a `subsystem` is to schedule a `command` to be sent when a certain button is pressed on a controller.

For instance, a roller intake might be set up such that whenever nothing is being pressed on the controller, its default `command` is to run at a low, constant speed. Then, if the A button is pressed, we could schedule it to run an ejecting command, and when the B button is pressed, we might schedule it so that it runs an intaking command.
