# Command (Roller Intake)

With our subsystem file finished and filled with constants, it is now time to go onto the next big topic: Commands.

## What are commands?

The purpose of a command is to make the robot actually complete an action such as intaking, ejecting, or even staying in a neutral state. As a result, there is usually one command per state. These commands eventually get called by other parts of the robot code when an action needs to be done. Each subsystem will always have a command running on it that is telling it what it should be doing, even if that command is telling it to be still. Whenever we push or release a button, we associate it with a command for a certain subsystem that then makes our robot move.

## Command File Format

Now that the basic definiton of a command has been gone over it is time to go over a Command file and its format. For the sake of this tutorial this command will take care of the intake. Here is the basic skeleton of a command. One thing you should note is the naming of the command: We always want to put the name of the subsystem, then the action, and then the word `Command`. This way, we can keep consistent with our class names while making them also easy to organize / find. Note that this create some interesting command names, as you will see with `RollerIntake + Intake + Command = RollerIntakeIntakeCommand`.

```java
package frc.robot.commands.rollerIntake;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj2.command.CommandBase;
import frc.robot.subsystems.RollerIntake;

public class RollerIntakeIntakeCommand extends CommandBase {

    public RollerIntakeIntakeCommand()

    }

    @Override
    public void initialize() {

    }

    @Override
    public void execute() {

    }

    @Override
    public void end(boolean interrupted) {

    }

    @Override
    public boolean isFinished() {

    }
}
```

Now we will briefly look over the purpose of the constructor and the functions

### `public RollerIntakeIntakeCommand()`

This is the consructor for the command. All this deals with is defining the intake for usage in the subsequent functions.

### `public void initialize()`

This function is run once whenever the command is first created. For now, we mostly won't put a lot of stuff in here because we want to constantly call functions, but for now we generally don't put a lot in here.

### `public void execute()`

This function runs constantly at 50 Hz (period of 20 ms) while the command is running. We use this to change the state of the subsystem with our command. This is where the actual functionality of our command is defined. 

### `public void end(boolean interrupted)`

The end function is run once when the command finishes. It is usually used for reverting the subsystem back to the default state although occasionally, it is also used for other things like setting variables to certain values.

### `public boolean isFinished()`

This function is run as often as the `execute()` function and is in charge of setting the conditions for which the command should stop running.

## Adding Functionality

Now that we have the skeleton of the subsystem out of the way, we can start programming the command.

### The Package, Necessary Imports and Class Declaration

```java
package frc.robot.commands.rollerIntake;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj2.command.CommandBase;
import frc.robot.subsystems.RollerIntake;

public class RollerIntakeIntakeCommand extends CommandBase {
    
    ...
}
```

* The package is very self explanatory. The file is within a folder called rollerIntake which is inside of commands.
* The first import is a wpilib file called commandBase. This takes care of the functionality of a command and its methods.
* The second import is the subsystem that this command uses. If there are multiple subsystems used, there are multiple imports.
* Lastly, there is the class declaration which is called `Subsystem+Command`. The notable thing is that it extends `CommandBase` just like our subsytems extending SnailSubsystem which then extends `SubsystemBase`. This pretty much registers the command as a command in WPILib's system and allows it to be recognized as such.

### Initializing the Command

```java
public class RollerIntakeIntakeCommand extends CommandBase {

    private RollerIntake rollerIntake;

    public RollerIntakeIntakeCommand(RollerIntake rollerIntake) {
        this.rollerIntake = rollerIntake;

        addRequirements(rollerIntake);
    }

    @Override
    public void initialize() {

    }
```

* The first thing we do in the command is declare the subsystem we will be using.
* Then, we proceed to define the constructor as taking in the subsystem that will be adjusted by the command.
* After that is `addRequirements(rollerIntake)`. The purpose of addRequirements is for the scheduler to know which subsystems are being used for commands. If the scheduler sees two commands running that have the `RollerIntake` subsystem as a requirement, it will cancel the earlier command in favor of the new one.
* Lastly, there is `initialize()` function. There is currently nothing inside of it as this is a basic command. Though it is still not deleted in case there will be a future need of it. It is generally a good idea not to delete these functions from our class even if they are unused because we may find that we need to add stuff for debugging.

### Changing The Subsystem State

```java
    @Override
    public void initialize() {
    }

    @Override
    public void execute() {
        rollerIntake.intake();
    }
```

In the execute function, there is only one line, and this line is entirely responsible for actually making the robot enter the `INTAKING` state. In our subsystem file, we made the function called `intake()`, which is being used here.s

```java
// Note this code is inside of our RollerIntake.java file and is already programmed

public void intake() {
    state = State.INTAKING;
}
```

By calling this function we change the state to `INTAKING` which triggers the update function to respond.

```java
// Note this code is inside of our RollerIntake.java file and is already programmed

@Override
public void update() {
    switch(state) {
        case NEUTRAL:
            rollerIntakeMotor.set(0.0);
            break;
        case INTAKING:
            rollerIntakeMotor.set(1.0);
            break;
        case EJECTING:
            rollerIntakeMotor.set(-1.0
            break;
        }
}
```

### Ending The Command

With the main functionality of the command complete, it is now time to define what happens to .

```java
@Override
    public void execute() {
        rollerIntake.intake();
    }

    @Override
    public void end(boolean interrupted) {
        rollerIntake.neutral();
    }

    @Override
    public boolean isFinished() {
        return false;
    }
}
```

* The *end()* function is called when the command is finished running. In this specific end function, the `RollerIntake` is reverted to the `neutral` state which is the default for the RollerIntake subsystem.
  * When the function is called, the `interrupted` variable will either be set to `true` or `false` depending on how the function was ended. The `interrupted` varaible is set to `true` if another command had interrupted this command and that is why this command is being terminated.
* The `isFinished()` function is in charge of giving the conditions for which a command ends. By default, `false` is returned which means that the function is not over. By putting code in here, we can customly define when this command will terminate.

## All The Code In The Lesson Together

Below is all of the code we did in this lesson compiled. It would bec completely functional assuming the command was actually run in another file, which we will go over in the next section

```java
package frc.robot.commands.rollerIntake;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj2.command.CommandBase;
import frc.robot.subsystems.RollerIntake;

public class RollerIntakeIntakeCommand extends CommandBase {

    private RollerIntake rollerIntake;

    public RollerIntakeIntakeCommand(RollerIntake rollerIntake) {
        this.rollerIntake = rollerIntake;

        addRequirements(rollerIntake);
    }

    @Override
    public void initialize() {
    }

    @Override
    public void execute() {
        rollerIntake.intake();
    }

    @Override
    public void end(boolean interrupted) {
        rollerIntake.neutral();
    }

    @Override
    public boolean isFinished() {
        return false;
    }
}
```

## Changes In The Other Two Commands

Although we only went over the `RollerIntakeIntakeCommand`, there are two other commands for subsystem(one for each state.) In each of the commands there are a few small yet very important differences.

### RollerIntakeEjectCommand

In this command everything is exactly the same except for the `execute()` function. Instead of calling `intake()`, it calls `eject()` which changes the state to `EJECTING`. Otherwise they are identical.

```java
 @Override
    public void execute() {
        rollerIntake.eject();
    }
```

### RollerIntakeNeutralCommand

In this command there is another key difference other than the `execute()` function. In the `end()` function instead of setting the state to `NEUTRAL`, nothing is written. That is because the original state was already in `NEUTRAL`. Below are the two modified functions.

```java
    @Override
    public void execute() {
        rollerIntake.neutral();
    }

    @Override
    public void end(boolean interrupted) {

    }
```

## Summary

Today we learned how to make commands and how they relate to what a subsystem does. Next lesson, we will learn how the commands actually get called. If you have any questions about this lesson, feel free to ask a senior programming member.
