# Other Subsystems

Although the drive subsystem is useful, it's also useful to have more than just the ability to drive.  These other subsystems follow much in the same as the drive subsystem, being encapsulated with objects and having functions to command them.  To effectively use systems that have multiple distinct states that we need to track, we'd need some mechanism to keep track of the current mode, as the operation of one subsystem may impact another.

## Intake Example

An intake subsystem may consist of one or more motors and some mechanism for detecting whether the game piece is in yet or not.  In this example, we'll use some psuedo-code to represent the game-piece being in or not, but the motor example is fairly simple.

```java
package frc.robot;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj.PWMTalonSRX;

public class Intake {
    PWMTalonSRX intakeLeft = new PWMTalonSRX(1);
    PWMTalonSRX intakeRight = new PWMTalonSRX(2);
    double intakePower = .8;
    
	public void commandIn() {
		intakeLeft.set(intakePower);
		intakeRight.set(-intakePower);
	}

	public void commandOut() {
		intakeLeft.set(-intakePower);
		intakeRight.set(intakePower);
	}
}
```

This above example seems functional, and would definitely work.  Let's break it down breifly.  The subsystem contains the intake motors, and we just command it to run in or out at a given speed we've predetermined, to be plus or minus .8 of bus voltage.  To improve this for our drive team, who may want fine-grained control, we might feed in a joystick value instead.

```java
	public void command(double power) {
		intakeLeft.set(power);
		intakeRight.set(-power);
	}
```

This would allow us to just pass in a joystick and have it commanded based on that, but it still places some onus on the drive team, who may or may not be preoccupied.  Though we won't cover the full anatomy of what that code would look like, it'd do essentially the following.

* Command motors in or out some variable amount.
* If the game-piece is in but the operator isn't commanding it to eject, slowly run the intake in to ensure the game-piece stays in.
* If the operator is commanding it to eject, do so.

This would could be managed in a "smartCommand" method that checks whether the mechanism for detecting game pieces being nearby detects one, and then commands it based on that, or we could create a notifier within the Intake subsystem's class that handled it almost autonomously.  We'll cover why we might want a Notifier in the next example.

## Flywheel Shooter Example

A flywheel shooter is a mechanism that takes use of a motor and a spinning wheel to fire a ball or game piece into a target.  Many teams use some emperically determined wheel velocity which they then convert to RPM.  We'll assume our shooter has a flywheel, and will be making use of a [bang-bang controller.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bang%E2%80%93bang_control)

```java

package frc.robot;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj.PWMTalonSRX;

public class Shooter {
	PWMTalonSRX shooterMotor = new PWMTalonSRX(1);
	
	public void run() {
		if (belowSpeed()) {
			shooterMotor.set(1);
		}
		else {
			shooterMotor.set(-1);
		}
	}
	
	public boolean belowSpeed() {
	 //Some code that returns a boolean based on our desired RPM.
	}
}
```

The above code will turn the shooter motor on if we're below speed and off if we're below speed.  While fairly primitive, this technique of "bang bang" control is fairly well established and very functional for initial tests.

## Flywheel Example Improvements

if we want more ideal control of our shooter, we generally follow some principles.

* Faster loops.
* Proportional control.

The first item is a bit tricky.  Our main robot loop runs at 50Hz, stated earlier in our training.  Faster loops let the system begin to respond faster than the 20ms between loops, such as 10ms or 5ms using 100 or 200Hz options.  If we create a new Notifier in the subsystem that starts when it's created, and call our `run()` function within it, our update rate is upped significantly without touching the rest of our robot code (and it removes the need to go `shooter.getInstance().run();` every robot loopp.

The latter item is even trickier, but not without reason.  Our shooter may want to slow down our acceleration as we get closer to the speed, in both directions.  To do this, we make use of a proportional controller.  This can be covered in greater detail by one of our programming veterans or mentors, so reach out for better coverage.
