# Functions with Return Types

## Mathematical Functions

You may have noticed that in math, we also have something called functions. For instance, the square function takes in an integer `x` and returns `x * x`. For instance, if we called `square(3)` in math, we would get `9`. Similarly, in programming, we can also create functions that return values.

## Squared Function

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println(square(10));
}

public static int square(int x) {
    int s = x * x;
    return s;
}
```

In this case, we create that mathematical function we described earlier. To add in the return type, we change what was previously `void` to the variable type that we are returning. Then, in the block of code, we put `return value` to return that value we calculated.

Note that if we define a return type, we must put `return value;` Otherwise, there will be an error. `void` makes it so that the function does not have a return type, making it unnecessary to `return` any values.

After we define this function, we can call the function `square(x)`. This will return a value, which we can then use like a normal constant/variable. We can print that value, assign it to a variable, or do nothing with it.

## Uses

These types of functions can be very useful for performing utility functions. For instance, say we had a String and we wanted to reverse it multiple times in a program. Then, we would have to program in the same lengthy implementation multiple times in a program. However, instead, we could use a function that takes in a String, and returns the reversed Strings. This program is included in the example programs folder.