# Match Structure

## States

For each state of the robot, there are two functions, `init` and `periodic`. Essentially, when that state starts, the `init` function is run once, and after that, the `periodic` function repeats constantly at 50Hz, or 50 times a second.

### Startup & Disabled

When the robot is turned on but not activated, it is disabled. When the robot's operating system has finished turning on, the `robotInit()` function is called once, before transitioning into `disabledPeriodic()`In this state, the robot's motors shouldn't move. The code in `disabledInit()` runs once while the code in `disabledPeriodic()` runs 50 times per second. We don't use disabled that much, besides a bit of code in `disabledPeriodic()` to log sensor values or reset other sensors for pre-match procedure.

### Autonomous

In the autonomous period, the robot must complete some task **on its own, without human input**. The code in `autonomousInit()` runs once while the code in `autonomousPeriodic()` runs 50 times per second. Most of our code is in `autonomousInit()`. This is because we mostly want to run our auto commands/pathing only once, so we put them in `autonomousInit()` so that they are run the instant the autonomous period starts.  

### Teleoperated

In the teleoperated period, the robot can take human input to complete tasks. The code in `teleopInit()` runs once while the code in `teleopPeriodic()` runs 50 times per second. Most of our code is in `teleopPeriodic()`. This is because we mostly want to constantly update our robot with new controller inputs from the players.

## Match Order

When we load the robot onto the field, the robot is in its disabled state. Once the match starts, autonomous begins and it lasts for 15 seconds. Then, teleoperated begins and lasts for 135 seconds. Finally, once teleoperated ends, the match ends and the robot goes back to disabled.  More specifically though, the order is as follows:

1. Robot is turned on and the roboRIO boots.
2. The roboRIO finished booting and user code (ie our robot code) is run.
3. Our robot code starts, first running `robotInit()`.
4. Our robot then transitions into `disabledInit()`.
5. Our robot repeats `disabledPeriodic()` until the match begins or we manually switch modes.
6. When the match begins the `autonomousInt()` function is called, followed by `autonomousPeriodic()` until the end of the period.
7. When the autonomous period is over, we're briefly transitioned back into the `disabledPeriodic()` mode until the field has confirmed all robots have disabled, and then we are transitioned into `teleopInit()`
8. `teleopInit()` has exited no issue, we're moved into `teleopPeriodic()` for the remainder of the match.
9. The match is over, we're moved back into `disabledInit()` and then `disabledPeriodic()` until the power is removed from the robot.
