# Program Structure

## Robot Class

In a Java program, the main file was called something like `Main.java` and looked like this:

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Program here!");
    }
}
```

Essentially, we would put all of the code we wanted to execute inside of the function `main()`. In robot code, we have something similar, except there are multiple "`main`" functions. Essentially, all of your code goes in a few functions, but each function is run at a different time. For our `Main.java`, the `main()` function would be called as soon as the user hits the run button. For robot programming, each function is called at a specific time in the match.

```java
package frc.robot;

import edu.wpi.first.wpilibj.*;

public class Robot extends IterativeRobot {
    public void robotInit() {
        // Runs once when the robot is turned on
    }

    public void disabledInit() {
        // Runs once when the robot is disabled
    }
    public void disabledPeriodic() {
        // Runs repeatedly when the robot is disabled
    }

    public void teleopInit() {
        // Runs once when the robot enters teleop
    }
    public void teleopPeriodic() {
        // Runs repeatedly when the robot is in teleop
    }

    public void autonomousInit() {
        // Runs once when the robot enters autonomous
    }
    public void autonomousPeriodic() {
        // Runs repeatedly when the robot is in autonomou
    }
}
```

Ok, let's break this down. Just focusing on the functions, each one is run at a specific time, and there are comments telling when these will be run.

The new big thing here is probably the top bit. Essentially `package frc.robot` is something that we need in multi file programs to tell the computer exactly where this file is located. In this case, when we make a project, WPILib generates a specific project structure that puts our main file in `frc.robot`, so we will keep it there.

Next, we have an import statement. This is just like when we had to import new functionality like `Scanner`. In this case, you might notice that we aren't importing a specific object but instead we put `.*` at the end. This just tells the computer to import everything from that folder so we can use it.

Finally we have our `Robot.java` class extending something called `IterativeRobot`. What's happening is that there are multiple different types of program structures that we use, and in this case, we are using `IterativeRobot`. So to tell the program that our robot is an `IterativeRobot`, we make it a subclass of `IterativeRobot`, and then the program can use our `Robot` class as an `IterativeRobot`.