# First Program

## Our First Java Program

All of our Java programs will have a similar basic structure. This structure is explained below. For now, we will be focusing on single file programs, and all of our code will be in a file called `Main.java`.

```java
public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
  }
}
```

The above is essentially the template that will make up all of your programs. Essentially, a program is like a list of instructions, and all of these instructions are placed inside of the highlighted area below:

TODO PUT PICTURE OF HIGHLIGHTED MAIN {} HERE

Here, we can put commands and logic that will make our program actually do stuff. Don't worry too much about the stuff around it. All of that is just structural stuff that you don't have to be concerned with right now.

One of the primary commands we can perform is for our program to print something. For instance, a common example is a program that will print the text `"Hello World!"` to the console. The command we can use for this is a bit long, but it's one of the essential commands we will be using.

```java
public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Hello World!");
  }
}
```

Now that we have this, try running the program! You should see the text "Hello World" appear.

Look at the middle bit, where you can see the text `"Hello World!"`. Try switching this message to something different, but make sure you don't remove the quotation marks.

Congratulations, you've written your first Java program!
