# Variables

## What Variables Are

Similar to in math, **variables** are values that can change. For instance, in math, `x` is a variable that can take on a range of values, such as `x = 1`, `x = 2`, or `x = 138`.

## Why They Are Useful

Programming is essentially all about manipulating numbers and objects to achieve what we want. However, we very frequently want to store those values, manipulate them and store them again. As a result, we use variables.

## Variables in Java

We can declare a variable as follows: `int variable = 0;`.

Declaring variables have multiple parts:

* First, we must put the type of the variable: `int`
  * In this case, `int` stands for integer, so the variable can be any whole number
* Next, we put the variable name: `variable`
* Finally, we must declare its value, which we do with `= 0`

We can manipulate the values in this expression. For instance, we can reassign our variable to another value `variable = 5;` Note that since we have already declared the type of `variable` and we are simply modifying the contents, we do not need to put `int` again.

We can also use variable in relation to each other. To see this, we can use two variables, `int var1 = 3;` and `int var2 = 4`. We can then write `var1 = var2 + 3`. This would set the value of `var1` to 7, and erase its original value of 3.

## Variable Types

In Java, there are multiple fundamental data types that come with the language. In the future, we will discuss how to make our own data types and use other custom ones, but here are built in ones:

* boolean - true/false (true, false)
* char - character ('a', 'b', ')', '/')
* byte - smallest integer (10, 13, 100, -13)
* short - small integer (1000, -1301, 13910, -10000)
* int - medium-sized integer (1390193, 13910391, -131939, 1390139)
* long - large integer (1839183918, 148184914918, -138918391839, 1849819482)
* float - small decimal (3.242, 4.3213, -5.91238)
* double - large decimal (4.2382983298, -1.23213213, -100.31938898)
  
Note that we have 4 different types for integers, and 2 for decimals. As we go up and down, we make tradeoffs of amount of significant figures in the number with how much memory it takes up. For robot programming, we will primarily use `boolean`, `int`, and `double`.

## Strings

You may have noticed that we did not include any data types for blocks of text, only `char`, which supports a single character. This is because blocks of text, or "strings", as they are called in programming, are not a build in data type, but do come with Java. To declare a string, we must type `String text = "My text here";`. Note that in order to make the computer recognize "My text here", we must surround it with quotes. Otherwise, the computer may interpret it as programming keywords or variable names.

Similar to how we can add numbers, we can also add strings, also called **concatenation**. We can use the `+` symbol to add strings, `String message = "Hello" + " " + "World!"`.

## Casting

If you try and add a variable that is a `double` and a variable that is an int and then store it in an `int`, you may come across some problems. For instance, take the line `int test = 4.1 + 3;`.

An error rises because on the left, we have declared a variable of type `int`. However, we have tried to set it equal to a `double + int`. The computer does the calculation and then returns a new value `7.1`. This value's type is `double`, which does not fit into a variable of type `int`, throwing an error.

The same would happen even if we had put `4.0` instead of `4.1`, as the type would still be a `double`, even if the value is `7.0`.

To resolve this, we must do something called **casting**. We can cast the `double` value to an `int` value, removing the decimal place. We do this in code by typing `int test = (int) (4.1 + 3);`. We put the type that we want to cast to inside of the parentheses and put it in front of the value we want to cast.

Note that sometimes the computer automatically casts some values, and sometimes cannot cast values. For instance, the computer will automatically cast an `int` to a `double` in order to calculate the operation `4.1 + 3`. In this case, the computer automatically casts `3` to `3.0`. However, it will not automatically cast `7.1` to `7` because this results in a lost of information past the decimal point, which the computer will refuse to do.

Additionally, the computer will not cast between two data types that don't make sense. For instance, it cannot cast between a `String` and a `int`, because there is no `int` that can properly represent the string `"cat"`.

You don't have to memorize all of this, just know how to cast variables when there is an error and know that the computer takes care of it for you sometimes.