# Arrays

A few lessons back, we learned what variables were: A way to store data. While creating only one variable seems like a concise and efficient way to store data, things can get very messy once hundreds or thousands of variables need to be created. To deal with this issue, Java has a very useful feature which is called an Array.

## What exactly are arrays?

The standard definition of an array is "a collection of variables from the same data type". From this collection variables we can access the variable that is needed very easily.

## Declaring an array

In Java, there are quite a few ways to declare arrays. Nevertheless, I will cover the most straightforawrd way first.
```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int[] myArray = new int[25];
    }
}
```
This array just created is an array of ints as the first word in the line was `int`. If the first word was `double`, the array would have doubles in it. 

* Then, `int` is followed by two brackets. This is signifies that what your are declaring is an array. 

* After the brackets is the variable name. In this example the name is "myArray" but just like all variable names they can be whatever the programmer desires. 

* Then comes the equal sign which is always used when assigning a variable to something. 
The next word is not very relevant currently but in a few lessons it will be explored. For the the purposes of this lesson `new` just means that a new array will be made. 

* The last two things is the int followed by a number in brackets. Just like the `int` in the very beginning of the declaraton, it could be changed to `double` or `float` if the contents of the array were doubles or floats. 

* On the other hand, the number inside the brackets has nothing to do with data types in the array. It actually has to do with the number of "elements" or number of variables in the array. This number can not be changed so it is important to know beforehand the number of variables in an array.
